# Projet-Microprocesseurs-2020-2021
Development of an automatic hand gel dispenser using the PIC18F46K22 microprocessor with MPLAB X IDE v5.25 as a compiler and Proteus 8 Professional for the simulation. Implementation of the code on real Hardware.

This    project    is    our    Final    Year  Project    that    we      are      required    to      execute    at    the      end      of our        3rd    year    of      the      Bachelor      in      Telecommunications    curriculum.  The    project    was     developed          at    Institut  National    des    Telecommunications    et    de      l’Informatique    at    Université     Saint-Joseph            in        Mar Roukoz (USJ),  Lebanon,    and  due  to  covid-19  restrictions,  it  was      also   developed           remotely            from    home,  which  was  a  tough  challenge  also. The    primary    goal    of    this    project    is  to  develop      an    Automatic    Hand    Gel    dispenser.    We    used an      InfraRed      proximity      sensor      which      is      essential      to      detect      movement      and      execute      as   previously      programmed      in      our      source    code.    When      the      hand    comes    close    to    the      sensor,         the    infrared  light  from  the  LED    reflects  off  of    the    object    and    is    detected    by    the    receiver.  The LCD   is         used     to     display   to   the    user    what    action  he/she    needs    to    do.  When    the    user    puts   his/her    hand    the    IR    proximity  sensor  will  detect  that,  and  the  gel  starts  dispensing. The    task    was    to    program    the    microcontroller    in  order  to  power  On  and  Off  the  pump  at  certain durations.    If    the    hand    has    been    there    for  too  long,    then  in  favor    of    monitoring  the  amount    of   hand        gel      that      is      dispensed    each    time    the    user    places    their    hand    near    the    sensor      certain   steps  were  required  to  be  done. With  the  Coronavirus  outbreak    and    the  roads    closing,  the  planning    and  the  meetings    to  work    in   groups            on    the    project      involved      more    difficulties.  In    addition    to      having    dealt      with        the hardware    from      distance    was    a    lot    more    challenging    to    begin  with. Solutions    were    to  work    on    teams    remotely,    however  poor  connection  and    electricity  outbreaks   were    major    obstacles,    and  posed  slight  difficulties  in  communication. We   used    C18     on   the     MPLAB X IDE   as     a     compiler       and   we     simulated   the   whole     thing    using  PROTEUS  8  Professional,  and  it  was  programmed  to  the  ships  using    the    MPLAB  X  IDE.
